---
subpage: true
title: "OsACBP6"
description: ""
category: genes
tags: [ABC transporter, leaf, root, growth, defense, defense response, meristem, homeostasis, jasmonic, jasmonic acid, reactive oxygen species, root meristem]
---

* **Information**  
    + Symbol: OsACBP6  
    + MSU: [LOC_Os03g61930](http://rice.plantbiology.msu.edu/cgi-bin/ORF_infopage.cgi?orf=LOC_Os03g61930)  
    + RAPdb: [Os03g0835600](http://rapdb.dna.affrc.go.jp/viewer/gbrowse_details/irgsp1?name=Os03g0835600)  

* **Publication**  
    + [Subcellular localization of rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins ACBPs indicates that OsACBP6::GFP is targeted to the peroxisomes.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Subcellular+localization+of+rice+acyl-CoA-binding+proteins+ACBPs+indicates+that+OsACBP6::GFP+is+targeted+to+the+peroxisomes.%5BTitle%5D), 2014, New Phytol.
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=Rice+acyl-CoA-binding+proteins+OsACBP4+and+OsACBP5+are+differentially+localized+in+the+endoplasmic+reticulum+of+transgenic+Arabidopsis.%5BTitle%5D), 2014, Plant Signal Behav.
    + [RICE ACYL-COA-BINDING PROTEIN6 Affects Acyl-CoA Homeostasis and Growth in Rice](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=RICE+ACYL-COA-BINDING+PROTEIN6+Affects+Acyl-CoA+Homeostasis+and+Growth+in+Rice%5BTitle%5D), 2020, Rice.

* **Genbank accession number**  

* **Key message**  
    + The function of OsACBP6 was investigated by overexpressing 35S::OsACBP6 in the peroxisomal abc transporter1 (pxa1) mutant defective in peroxisomal fatty acid β-oxidation
    + The osacbp6 mutant showed diminished growth with reduction in root meristem activity and leaf growth
    + Disruption of OsACBP6 compromises growth and led to provoked defense response, suggesting a correlation of enhanced acyl-CoAs content with defense responses
    + Taken together, loss of OsACBP6 not only resulted in a disruption of the acyl-CoA homeostasis but also peroxidase-dependent reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis
    + In contrast, osacbp6-complemented transgenic rice displayed similar phenotype to the wild type rice, supporting a role for OsACBP6 in the maintenance of the acyl-CoA pool and ROS homeostasis
    + Furthermore, quantification of plant hormones supported the findings observed in the transcriptome and an increase in jasmonic acid level occurred in osacbp6

* **Connection**  
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](OsACBP6))
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](OsACBP6))
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](OsACBP6))
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](OsACBP6))
    + [Rice acyl-CoA-binding proteins OsACBP4 and OsACBP5 are differentially localized in the endoplasmic reticulum of transgenic Arabidopsis.](OsACBP6))



